# Installing Ubuntu Pro For Windows
This guide will show you how to install Ubuntu Pro For Windows for local development and testing.

### Requirements
- A Windows machine with access to the internet
- Appx from the Microsoft Store:
  - Windows Subsystem For Linux
  - Either Ubuntu, Ubuntu 22.04, or Ubuntu (Preview)
- The Windows Subsystem for Windows optional feature enabled

### Download
<!-- TODO: Update when we cange were artifcats are hosted -->
1. Go to the [repository actions page](https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-pro-for-windows/actions/workflows/qa-azure.yaml?query=branch%3Amain+).
2. Click the latest successful workflow run.
3. Scroll down past any warnings or errors, until you reach the Artifacts section.
4. Download:
    - Windows agent:    UbuntuProForWindows+...-production.msixbundle
    - WSL-Pro-Service:  Wsl-pro-service_….deb

Notice that, for the step above, there is also an alternative version of the MSIX bundle enabled for end-to-end testing. Most likely, that's not what you want to download.

### Install the Windows agent
This is the Windows-side agent that manages the distros.
1. Uninstall Ubuntu Pro For Windows if you had installed previously:
    ```powershell
    Get-AppxPackage -Name Ubuntu-Pro-For-Windows | Remove-AppxPackage
    Remove-Item -Recurse "${env:LOCALAPPDATA}/Ubuntu Pro"
    ```
2. Follow the download steps to download UbuntuProForWindows
3. Unzip the artifact
4. Find the certificate inside. Install it into `Local Machine/Trusted people`.
5. Open Powershell in this directory and run
    ```powershell
    Add-AppxPackage .\UbuntuProForWindows_*_x64.msixbundle
    ```
6. Open the start menu and search for "Ubuntu Pro For Windows".
7. The Firewall may ask for an exception. Allow it.
8. The GUI should show up. You’re done.


### Install the WSL Pro Service
This is the Linux-side component that talks to the agent. Choose one or more distros Jammy or greater, and follow the instructions.
1. Uninstall the WSL-Pro-Service from your distro if you had it installed previously:
    ```bash
    sudo apt remove wsl-pro-service
    ```
2. Follow the download steps to download the WSL-Pro-Service.
3. Unzip the artifact.
4. Navigate to the unzipped directory containing the .deb file. Here is a possible path:
    ```bash
    cd /mnt/c/Users/WINDOWS-USER/Downloads/wsl-pro-service_*
    ```
5. Install the deb package.
    ```bash
    sudo apt install ./wsl-pro-service_*.deb
    ```
6. Ensure it works via systemd:
    ```bash
    systemctl status wsl-pro.service
    ```

# Tests and utilities
## Enabling Pro
If you’ve completed the installation, you may want to check that it worked. To do so, follow these steps:
1. Go to your [Ubuntu Pro dashboard](https://ubuntu.com/pro/dashboardand) to get your Ubuntu Pro token.
2. Go to the Windows menu, and search and click Ubuntu Pro For Windows. If it does not show up, your installation of the agent went wrong.
3. Click on "I already have a token".
4. Introduce the token you got from your Pro dashboard, and click "Apply".
5. Start the distro you installed WSL-Pro-Service in, and run
    ```bash
    pro status
    ```
6. If the distro is pro-attached, the installation was successful.

## Landscape registration
You can use a private Landscape instance (different from [landscape.canonical.com](landscape.canonical.com)). It must be over HTTP, as using certificates is not yet supported. To do so, follow these steps:
1. Press Windows+R.
2. Write regedit.exe and enter.
3. Go to `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Canonical\UbuntuPro`.
4. There are two relevant fields:
    - LandscapeAgentURL should contain the URL where the Landscape Hostagent server is hosted.
    - LandscapeClientConfig should contain the contents of the yaml file with the settings, such as the [example from the Landscape repository](https://github.com/canonical/landscape-client/blob/master/example.conf).
5. To edit any of the fields, right-click and Edit
6. If you need more than one line, delete the field and create a new one with the same name, and type `Multi-String Value`.
7. Stop the agent:
    ```powershell
    Get-Process -Name Ubuntu-Pro-Agent | Stop-Process
    ```
8. Start the agent again:
    1. Open the start Menu and search for "Ubuntu Pro For Windows".
    2. The GUI should start.
    3. Wait a minute.
    4. Click on "Click to restart it".
9. Stop the distro you installed WSL-Pro-Service in:
    ```powershell
    wsl --terminate DISTRO_NAME
    ```
10. Start the distro you installed WSL-Pro-Service in.
11. You should see a new "pending computer authorisation" in you Landscape dashboard.